the US Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin is heading to Qatar for the last
for the next leg of his latest Middle
East Tour it comes hours after Hamas
said it had given its former response to
a Gaza ceasefire proposal announced by
President Biden nearly a four T night
ago Qatari officials along with those
from Egypt acting as mediators confirmed
the response had been received with a
focus now on any Israeli response the
proposed ceasefire plan which was
endorsed by the UN Security Council on
Monday Night Calls for a six week
ceasefire that would eventually become
permanent and the release of all
hostages still held by Hamas in this
response Hamas says the ceasefire must
be permanent and Israeli forces must
withdraw completely from the Gaza Strip
well for more we can now speak to our
Middle East correspondent Yandell who
joins us from Jerusalem and your land
just to start off has there been much
reaction from the Israeli government to
that statement by
Hamas well there wasn't a formal
response that came out of the Israeli
Prime Minister's office we did get
confirmation that the Israeli side had
received a copy of the Hamas reply um
but there was an unnamed uh Israeli
official quoted widely uh in the media
who put out a statement and said really
that um this had changed all the main
and most meaningful parameters in the
three-phase deal that President Biden
had outlined on the 31st of May and said
that this amounted to a rejection of The
Proposal that's on the table I mean I
think what we have to wait for though is
still from the mediators themselves the
cateres and Egyptians say that they are
ready to continue uh negotiations and
the White House which is also such an
important player here has said that it
is studying uh the Hamas reply yand what
could this mean for any plans for a ceas
fire especially at a time when the US
Secretary of State Anthony blinkin is
visiting the region yet
again indeed and Anthony blinkin has
really been pushing for um Hamas to
accept this deal also been putting
pressure on the Israeli side it seems as
well because although this is presented
as an Israeli initiative um the Israeli
Prime Minister has come out you know not
sounding like he's giving wholehearted
approval of this plan uh by any means
and he is in a very difficult position
where he's trying to keep his Hardline
coalition government together and there
are key ministers on the far right who
have threatened to walk away if Israel
goes through uh with this plan um
Anthony blinkin is going to be in a
really important place in katar um
during the day this is a timely visit
there uh katar of course not just an
important Regional mediator um as a goet
for Hamas and Israel but it also hosts
some of the Hamas political leadership
it's been really very important in
conveying messages backwards and
forwards and how much room for maneuver
do you think there is for mediators
because it seems that they've been at
this for months
now indeed and it does look like you
know the framework that was laid out the
three phases laid out by President Biden
are similar to other deals that we have
heard about um over recent months
basically beginning with u in this case
a six week truce in which many of uh
Israel's most vulnerable hostages still
held by Hamas and other armed factions
in Gaza would be returned um and the
idea is that that would then uh lead to
negotiations so that you could have a
longer term um what's actually called in
the deal that President Biden laid out a
permanent end to hostilities now this is
something that Hamas has specified that
it really wants it wants guarantees that
phase one will lead uh to phase 2 and
the complete withdrawal of Israeli
forces uh from Gaza but the isra I is
have been saying repeatedly that they
maintain the same goals in this war they
want to defeat Hamas um and remove it
from Power completely so it has no
political and Military capabilities left
in Gaza as well as to bring home all of
the hostages and to make sure that the
threat that they see uh from Gaza is
completely removed your land thank you
that's the BBC's your land now there in
Jerusalem